
-----

New game:

This game automatically saves data locally.  Note that if your browser cache is cleared, the save data will be lost.

-----
Game intro, with robot falling down very long hole

A team of interstellar excavators were investigating various rock bodies in the asteroid belt.  They were searching for gemstones and other rare ores, but discovered something even greater. (musgravite)

Deep within asteroid E-V15119 appeared to be the remnants of an ancient extraterrestrial civilization, with deliberately sculpted caves and passages.  Excited, many of the miners plunged deeper to see what other secrets the asteroid contained.

But the excavators never returned.  All that remained was Sibro, a laser-equipped excavation robot roaming the surface of the asteroid.

Sibro now has a new mission: plunge into the depths of E-V15119 and rescue the missing miners.

-----

firstLevel:

That was quite the fall, Sibro!
Try moving around a bit to make sure everything is still functioning.

It seems that's the case.  You're equipped with self-repair micro-machines, so you'll be fine as long as you don't get hurt too badly.

Ha, look at me talking with a robot.  I didn't think being alone in this room would make me go crazy that fast.  But with you walking around, there's still some hope for us!


firstOrb:

I'm stuck in this room with really tall crystal walls; I don't know where the other guys are.  Do you see anything like that around?  I can't say how far away you are from where we dropped in.  

It seems most of the walls here are would impervious to your current laser.  But try shooting it at things that look interesting anyway.  That's always worked for us in the past, hasn't it?


redEyebot:

We saw some intriguing eye-like creatures on our way in, but they seem pretty harmless.  My theory is they were the ones that created these passages.

It must have been pretty hard, like without limbs and all.  The inability to move probably didn't help either.  On second thought, it seems they'd be really lousy workers, huh?  Hmm...


firstReflect:

(after solving puzzle)
A reminder: use ESC or ENTER to refresh yourself if you need it.

Well with nothing better to do, I guess I'll lie down myself.  Ahh...

Wait, what is this red circular thing on the ceiling?


firstMultReflect:

(after solving puzzle)
Hey Sibro, check out what I discovered!  By pointing my laser pistol at this orb up there, I was able to open the door leading out of my room!  Wow!

Impressive how quickly I was able to escape, isn't it?  Try doing something similar if you come across an orb like that!
Anyway, I'm going to take a look around.


firstSpring:

(after solving puzzle)
Great, I managed to open up another door!  Busting through these dead-ends really gets me giddy.  Ha, I guess it doesn't take much to excite me.

Being trapped underground on some foreign world is supposed to be scary, isn't it?  But those kinds of bad emotions aren't going to help anyone.  I prefer to think more positively about these situations.

A robot like yourself wouldn't have to worry about that huh?  




platforming1:




DRAFTS:

Hey Sibro, what do you think the purpose of all these rooms are?

If it wasn't obvious Sibro, I am freaked out.  It feels like I'm constantly being watched.










