
-----

New game:

This game automatically saves data locally.  Note that if your browser cache is cleared, the save data will be lost.

-----
Game intro, with robot falling down very long hole

A team of interstellar excavators were investigating various rock bodies in the asteroid belt.  They were searching for gemstones and other rare ores, but discovered something even greater. (musgravite)

Deep within asteroid E-V15119 appeared to be the remnants of an ancient extraterrestrial civilization, with deliberately sculpted caves and passages.  Excited, many of the miners plunged deeper to see what other secrets the asteroid contained.

But the excavators never returned.  All that remained was Sibro, a laser-equipped excavation robot roaming the surface of the asteroid.

Sibro now has a new mission: plunge into the depths of E-V15119 and rescue the missing miners.


%intro1%
[A group of interstellar excavators
were searching newly discovered
asteroid E-V15119 for rare mineral
deposits.
                                 
								 
The three miners dug deep into the
rock.  Curiously, the asteroid's
interior contained what appeared
to be deliberately sculpted caves
and passages.  Was this place
inhabited?]

%intro2%
[Unfortunately, the miners never
returned.  All that remained was
Sibro, their laser-equipped robot
currently roaming the surface of
the asteroid.
                                
								
The robot plunged into the depths
of E-V15119.  Sibro now has a new
mission: solve the mysteries of the
asteroid and rescue the excavation
team!]

-----

%firstLevel% (Daz)
[That was quite the fall, Sibro!  Try moving around a bit to make sure everything is still functioning.

Press A or ← to move left;
press D or → to move right;
press W, SPACE, or ↑ to jump.

It seems everything is working fine.  You're equipped with self-repair micro-machines, so you'll be fine as long as you don't get hurt too badly.  Ha, look at me telling a robot all this.]

%firstOrb% (Daz)
[I'm not sure how I got here... the last thing I remember is exploring a cavern with Foll and Rob, yet I don't see them here.  I must have gotten knocked out some point, somehow.

It seems most of the walls here are would be impervious to a laser like yours.  But try shooting it at things that look interesting anyway.  That's always worked for us in the past, hasn't it?]

%firstReflect% (Daz)
[You can also fire a 'preview' laser that won't damage you if reflected back.
Hold the RIGHT MOUSE BUTTON or SHIFT to fire the 'preview' laser.

And press ESC or ENTER to refresh yourself if you need it.]


%numbersHelp% (Daz)
[Hey Sibro, I came across some weird red stars I haven't seen before.  Do you have any idea what they could mean?

There are 4 stars clumped together in this one spot, and they're next to a laser that visually resembles the number 4.  Hmm...]


%firstSand% (Daz)
[What are these rooms even for anyway?  It's clear this was the work of intelligent extraterrestrials, but they serve no purpose.  There's no storage, appliances, or life, save for the occasional eyeball thing.

And yet, there are still signs of deliberateness in how these rooms were constructed.  It's strange and unsettling.]


%trappedHelp% (???)
[--Yes, the oculroids are currently examining the robot visitor.  It won't be able to leave the room.--

--Wait, the left wall?  What about the left wall?  Cut the transmission!--]


%reflectOffDoorHelp% (???)
[--You morons are a disgrace to the Evrolian species.  Your laser isn't fit for blasting through colored doors.  The door will reflect it!--

--I expect those that carry the Evrolian legacy to at least remember that doors will reflect lasers of the same color.--]


%backtrack% (Daz)
[Out of curiosity I tried going back to my original room, but the door closed while I was gone.  I suppose whatever put us here wants us to keep moving forward.]

%revisit% (Foll)
[...is this Sibro?  It's Foll, I've been trying to contact you guys for a while now.  Guess what?  I finally found some musgravite!  Awesome, right?

Oh, these gems are even more radiant than they appear in pictures.  Rob and Daz need to see these as soon as they can.  Did those guys get lost?  Admittedly I'm a little lost too...]


%minerSitting% (Foll)
[Sibro, you're here!  I like the new look; blue suits you well.  Anyway, it's good to see you here 'bro.  After walking around for so long, it's a relief to see anybody.  I'm just so tired...

I'm gonna take a breather for a little while.  My instinct tells me we don't have much longer to go until we reach the ship!  Then all we'd have to do is find Daz and Rob.

Oh, and check out this musgravite I managed to snag a while back!  All those months of searching, and we'll finally have something to show for it.  It's beautiful!]
(Then throws musgravite into the air, where it just hovers.  Need to shine laser through it to solve the puzzle)


%useShooterHelp% (Foll)
[The aliens that created these caverns sure enjoy placing lasers and orbs everywhere... but they rarely seem to intersect.

The lasers in these rooms are pretty similar to yours, right Sibro?  I bet it wouldn't matter which lasers pierce an orb as long as the colors match.]



%openArea% (Foll)
[Sibro!  One of those weird alien creatures attacked you!  Is everything okay?

It seems to me that they're trying to prevent you from leaving.  They want you to stay here, and continue the maze.  Well I for one do not intend to stay any longer!

But Rob and Daz are still out missing.  We're not leaving without them.  From where we stand now, our options are limited...

Sibro, I'll have to ask you to continue searching for them.  I'm going to guard the ship and plan a flight out of this place.

I don't like going along with the aliens' little game they have here, but it's our only chance of saving Rob and Daz.  Show 'em what you can do, Sibro!]


%sandTimeHelp% (Foll)
[You know what's strange?  When you enter a room for the second time, everything reverts back to the way it was.

Even sand platforms that have crumbled away seem to come back untouched.  Do the aliens fix the rooms back up?  Is there some other mysterious force at work here?

Nah, it's probably best not to think about it too much.]


%platforming2% (Daz)
[Sibro, It's Daz!  One of those weird alien creatures called me, and said if I didn't preform better they would find a "better use" for me... what does that mean?  What am I being tested on?  I... I think they want to kill me!

Now I'm just trying to hide for as long as I can, but each room is more confusing than the last and I don't know where to go!  Sibro, you've got to save me!]

%minerScared% (Daz)
[Sibro!  I'm over here!  I am beyond glad you found me before those aliens did... I've been hearing noises and I think one is close by!

I heard Foll made it out okay... and now that you found me, that only leaves Rob to be found.  Thanks so much for saving us Sibro.  I'd help... but I'm honestly too scared right now to do anything useful.

But I did find this colorchip you could probably use.
Where do you think those red sliding platforms should go?]


%gemPortals% (Rob)
[Hey, it's Rob.  I just got contacted by Daz, and it seems that he and Foll are resting fine on the ship.

That's great to hear, but I'm still lost down here.  I've done well to not gain the attention of wandering aliens, but that won't last forever.  Please hurry!]

%whiteAreaBuffer% (Rob)
[I have a feeling you'll soon be encountering the toughest enemy yet Sibro.  The thing moves so fast it'll be able to dodge anything you fire at it.

But what if it had nowhere to hide?  Try to use your laser in a way such that it won't have anywhere to run!]

%minerStanding% (Rob)
[Excellent, you made it Sibro.  Not that I wouldn't have made it back to the top myself eventually, but it's nice to see a familiar 'face'.

And with Foll and Daz also safe, we ought to get out of here.  The only way forward is up.

And to mark the occasion, try out this upgrade to your laser I managed to piece together.  I call it a powerchip!  Think you can make use of it during the escape?]

%keyRoomPower% (Rob)
[Remember, we're trying to get back to the surface!  Try to keep moving up, even if it means going backwards through rooms you've already visited!]

%openAreaPower% (Daz)
[You made it!  Quick, get in the ship so we can get out of here!]

%landedAgain% ( ??? )
[How insolent.  You tamper with our faulty specimens, murder some of our kind, then try to escape yourself?  You have personally angered me, little robot.  Your destruction will come here, by my hands.]

%pinkLevel% (Evri)
[Grahhhh hah ha ha.  You may have slipped by me, but observe where you ended up.  Now your true test begins!]

%laserSkip% (Evri)
[HEY!  DON'T THINK YOU CAN GET AWAY WITH THAT LASER-SKIP TRICK.

You can't even use the blue laser in this room!  NOW GO BACK AND SOLVE IT THE RIGHT WAY!]

%beforeFinal% (Evri)
[We Evrolians develop as a species by acquiring and building upon traits from other intelligent beings, biotic or otherwise.  This collection of mazes and puzzles were built to cull the most commendable subjects.

The human specimens faltered under fear and could barely progress.  But not you, little robot.  With unwavering precision you passed every test, as if you could foresee and prevent failure before it occurred.

The parts of your intelligence that make you selectively hostile infuriate me.  But your unsuitable attributes will not matter when you're crushed into scraps!  I'll take you apart and see what makes you tick!]


%ending1%
[The excavation team escaped from
the Evrolian planetoid.  The ship,
though damaged from Evri's attack,
managed to hold together.
                                             
											 
Sibro was declared a hero, and
the unassuming robot look the praise
silently as always.  Rob was to be
congratulated as Sibro's creator,
but he had a confession to make.]

%ending2%
[While Rob installed its laser
apparatus, he never actually put
Sibro together.  He encountered the
robot in a junkyard a few years ago.
                                             
											 
Sibro was found wandering around
without purpose.  Its programming
was never determined either.  Rob
strangely never brought himself to
disassemble Sibro to find out.]

%ending3%
[The other miners also decided to
leave it a mystery.  Other matters,
like cashing in the musgravite Foll
took, were more important anyway. 
                                             
											 
Right now, the miners were just
relieved to have Sibro by their
side, as a friend to accompany them
on many adventures to come.]




Foll Musgravite 






(Daz is tied up, acting scared.  Transmission ends with alien approaching him.  Find the room Daz is in, and the alien will start attacking you.  Fire the laser at Daz at some point to cut his ropes, after which he runs away.)

The Evrolians were going to extract Daz's organs.  

Evrolians evolve by taking the best 



But we are not a wasteful species.  That human still had a sturdy skeletal structure and a beating heart.  These functional organs should be put to much better use than wasting away in a worthless body.




DRAFTS:

Hey Sibro, what do you think the purpose of all these rooms are?

If it wasn't obvious Sibro, I am freaked out.  It feels like I'm constantly being watched.  It's affecting my concentration too.

(???)
Continuing to play our game was a wise decision.  Such dedication is worthy 

You should know why 

We are a relatively young species known as the Evrolians.  As I am your first representation of our kind, you may call me Evri.  Our numbers are small, but we are constantly growing at an ever-increasing rate.  


While humans evolved through natural selection, we prefer to do the selecting ourselves.  



The selection process is non-discriminatory.  Anything can contribute to the Evrolian evolutionary lineage.  Animals, plants, bacteria, and even inorganic objects can be beneficial.  Yes, this includes robots.

What will have the honor of being assimilated into our species and pass on the Evrolian legacy?  That is what this evaluation game will determine.

These chambers provide a clear and simple goal, with obstacles in an abstract sense.  And as our kind grows more advanced, this experiment becomes more refined.


Why did you come here?  This is not important, as prior motivations or tasks are meaningless.  No, we need only ask why you ARE here, at this very moment.



What is perceived now is how your actions will be defined.  And now you are in our evaluation chambers, and thus you shall be evaluated.  


The musgravite gems are of great importance to the Evrolian species.  

Ideas of disturbing these crucial gems are completely contradictory to the growth of our kind.  To be affiliated with such ideas is just as great a disservice.  

Well robot, it appears that you now have no place being within our Evrolian grounds, just like those humans.  It is unfortunate your potential is wasted here.  But now you are worthless.

You will all meet your ends here.  Your execution will be carried out by Vela, the great Evrolian princess herself.  Consider it as thanks for continuing to play so far.


Those passages you went through could barely be considered trials.  Becoming one of the Evrolians?  The mere thought is revolting.

Your evaluation was to become a lowly laborer.  Such Sub-Evrolians are beings that merely build what the mighty Evrolians design.  They were the ones that designed your evaluation chambers. 

